REASON FOR STUDY:  Change of mental status.
CLINICAL HISTORY:  A 67-year-old man with history of seizures, skull defect on the right, status post subdural evacuation, presents for a lung biopsy, found to have cancer.  Since biopsy has change of mental status and is agitated now with left hypodensity.
MEDICATIONS:  Keppra, nifedipine, aspirin, pravastatin, Flomax, gabapentin, Lovenox, calcitonin, Miralax.
INTRODUCTION:  A routine EEG was performed using standard 10-20 electrode placement system with anterior temporal and single lead EKG electrode.  The patient was recorded during lethargy and confusion.  Activating procedures were not performed.
TECHNICAL DIFFICULTIES:  Some movement artifact throughout the recording.
DESCRIPTION OF THE RECORD:  The record opens to a diffusely slow background with no longer posterior dominant rhythm or frontocentral beta.  The patient appears to be awake and no clear sleep architecture is seen.  There is variability and reactivity to the EEG.  No activating procedures were performed.
Abnormal Discharges:
Focal sharp waves seen over the right hemisphere mainly at T4 and at T6, independently at P4 and O2.
Focal slow waves seen over the right hemisphere, maximal at T4 at a frequency of 2-4 Hz and amplitude of 40-60 microvolts.  This is associated with increased asymmetric amplitude and beta over that region consistent with a breach rhythm.
Generalized slow waves at 2-4 Hz and continuously throughout the recording.
Seizures:  None.
IMPRESSION:  Abnormal EEG due to frequent right posterior quadrant sharp waves and breach as well as focal slowing in that region in the setting of generalized slowing.
CLINICAL CORRELATION:  This EEG is consistent with the diagnosis of localization related epilepsy with seizures likely arising from the right posterior quadrant region.  In addition, there is evidence of focal structural dysfunction and irritability in that region, which is consistent with the known previous lesion and surgery in that region.  No seizures were clearly seen.



